---
layout: post
title:  "being selfish at the end of the world"
date:   2020-06-01 19:47:00 -0000
categories: blog post
---

And we're back!

It's been what, twelve days since the last post? **Prepackaged excuse for this delay:** I went up to Tahoe with my family and the internet up there is less than stellar, so pushing and pulling files (albeit small) wasn't really something I was too keen on doing, but in reality I just had nothing I *wanted* to write about. Like sure, I could have talked about the shows I've been watching or the fact that I've started reading comics again (great stuff btw, highly recommend), but none of that really felt like it had substance. It would have just been me writing for writing's sake, which is something I want to avoid with this space. Turning what I would like to keep as a hobby into an obligation would ruin the spirit of it, and in all honesty, I've done that a few too many times to venture into that territory again. For now, this stays low stress, which happens to entail the idea of low commitment as well.

Anyways, it seems like the world, or at least the United States, is/are hitting caricaturistic levels of disaster. The economy is tanking to an abysmal state, a combination of riots, protests, and looting sprees have all but consumed metropolitan areas, and oh yeah, there's still a pandemic going on, which hasn't gotten any better for us by the way. The whole thing reads like some teen dystopian novel like some 15 year old's fanfic, which is really just a combination of the *Hunger Games* series and *1984*. Maybe the world has always been like this, not ***this*** shit, but in the way where there's always been this dystopian energy, but it just hasn't ever been this easy to see it? I'm willing to bet on that being the case. Either way, the whole situation makes me just want to hide in my room until it's all over. I've been a firm on the principle of not letting these huge things occupy a large space in my mind, because, personally, it can quickly become too much to bear. Maybe that makes me weak; a coward. But I always find myself getting so wound up and anxious about the state of the world that I can't enjoy *anything*. Noticing the little moral 'price tags' that everything has. Want to play the new *Diablo* game? Too bad. The producing studio supports the ideals of an oppressive regime. Want to relive a fraction of childhood and have some Nesquik? Ooooh yeah sorry, no, that company likes to exploit a monopoly on pregnant mothers in Africa. Want to leave the goddamn water running while you do dishes for just that modicum of convenience? Too fuckin' bad, water is a finite resource and you have to do your part in saving that shit. Now, maybe I'm misinformed, and I would love to be brought up to speed, but as it stands right now, I just can't live a simple, happy life with things like this in mind. I would be placing myself on the wrong side of history multiple times a day. 

This all came to a head around 6ish months ago, during the peak of the HK protests. I have been following the whole movement very closely, motivated partly by genuine investment in the outcome of the protesters efforts (read: slacktivism) and partly by curiosity in seeing how something this big would play out in the news cycle. I had gotten to a stage where I wanted to start to boycott companies which overtly played down the protests, or took actions which aligned with the goals of the CCP. Around this same time, a company I alluded to earlier, Blizzard Entertainment, had gotten themselves into some hot water, and were in the midst of a pretty big PR scandal. They hit the panic button and started to drop trailers for a TON of new products in an effort to woo their consumer base and win back the favor of the public. People, myself included, saw through this pretty easily, but it sparked a moral quandary within me, that still plagues me today. 

*Is it okay to like/consume/do things that are related to entities whose practices I don't agree with?*

 Or in other words, it is okay to be 'selfish' and keep my desires higher than what I perceive to be the 'greater good'. Can I still 'do my part' while also acting in accordance with what I want to do? If yes, does that make me a hypocrite? Someone of weak moral conviction? Or for that matter, one who lacks principles all together? 

 I'd like to think not. At the end of the day, I'm just one person who, if we're being honest, will have a minuscule impact on the world at best (not downplaying my ability, but rather emphasizing the sheer magnitude of the world). I don't think that me acting on my selfish desires will tip the scales in the direction of evil, and I certainly don't think that my small contributions will have any meaningful effect on the outcome of these battles. Now I understand that me playing my part is supposed to get others to do the same, who will inspire others, and ultimately culminate in a movement, motivated by a common cause. Problem is, I'm just not that type of person. I keep to myself, try to keep my head down, and not to shake the nest too much. I don't post on social media a lot, and when I do, it's personal things. When I talk to my friends, I'm there to entertain and be entertained, I try to leave the heavy stuff for other times. Point is, I'm a shitty advertiser, and by proxy, a shitty activist. I guess then, I'm like a terminal node in the spreading of a movement: I'm perfectly willing to accept the ideals and influence of the movement, but less willing to spread the dogma around. 
 
 Great, I've convinced myself that I'm allowed to indulge my desires, but now the conflict lies in the question of me being able to hold on to my moral code while doing so. Will I be able to enjoy these things while also staying true to what I think is right? I like to tell myself that the answer to that is a resounding 'yes', and I hope that I will be able to keep the two spheres separate in my mind, 'separating the art from the artist'. I think I can be 'selfish' and make peace with the fact that I'm being pretty hypocritical. But at the end of the day, I'm one person with little no influence, and it is not worth making myself miserable just to have a chip on my shoulder about supporting the good guys.

 So where is this all going? Well, with the recent events, a lot of things have been popping up, all bearing the similar message of 'inaction = support of the enemy', and I can't help but again feel shitty. Sure, I'm not taking action and supporting this cause which I wholeheartedly agree with. I'm not posting things, not donating money, not making signs, not getting out there and fighting for whats right. But does that make me a bad person? I still agree with the message of the cause, and they already have me in their corner. I could go out and 'recruit' more members sure, but critically, *I don't want to do that*. And that's where it all comes back, is that decision selfish? Is it selfish to value my comfort over the great good of the society which I am a part of? Probably, yeah. But is it 'okay' to do? Can I be a silent ally? That question is one which I have no idea how to answer, and I probably won't be able to for a long time. 

I think, for now though, I'm okay being the way I am. I've made peace (or as much as I can) with my ideals, and I'll silently support the causes which I want to. 

Do some sit-ups, call your mother, and make sure to get some fresh air. Till next time.

