---
layout: post
title:  "perception, purpose, and passion"
date:   2020-08-07 14:53:00 -0000
categories: blog post
---

Ok, so here we are, almost what, 2 months since the last (and only) real post on this blog? Full honesty, I've actually written out three other posts since the last, but they just never left the metaphorical oven for one reason or another. Usually I would sit down to write only to realize halfway through that I *didn't really care* about that topic, or that the writing just felt disingenuous and my motivation to keep writing would just vanish as I reread the half-assed content. It was actually simultaneously really funny and sad, because this is kinda what happens with like everything that I do; theres a small blast of passion at the beginning of something, and that fuels what I would consider to be my best work. The effort is motivated by real, genuine feelings of curiosity and wonder, where I can't wait to keep digging into this thing and learning more about it. After that initial 'boost' however, things just begin to feel almost...empty? If thats the right word for it. The familiarity with the subject matter breeds comfort, and that comfort in turn leads to loathing. 

Upon a second reading of that passage, I now realize I took 3 sentences to describe boredom.

Regardless, that discussion isn't even close to being sufficiently depressing for today, so I'll table it for now and move into the things thats really been on my mind recently. This might be a little bit all over the place, but bear with me for a bit, as I'm pretty sure this is another instance of me over-complicating a very simple issue (see above). 

So, I've recently completed my undergraduate degrees and have officially graduated from college (**yay!**), and while this *should* feel like a massive accomplishment and I *should* be happy that I've reached an arguably huge milestone in my short life, it honestly feels pretty shit. Like, really shit. See, college provided me with something I've *never* been able to find anywhere else (well, almost), that being **purpose**. In college, I was a college student. I ate, slept, and breathed so I could go to class, learn the material and excel in the courses. I'll admit I didn't really get into it until my second year, but once I did, I was hooked. The fact that there was a structured system with clear markers of development and progress just made the whole thing so disgustingly engaging. Call me a nerd, but I loved it. I was there not for the degree, but because I loved the pursuit of knowledge and continually having to adopt new theories and frameworks into my understanding of materials. Sure, the material was somewhat esoteric, but I was like, really good at it, and I've never really been that good at anything else in my life. I've tried sports, video games, music, art, hell even *vlogging* and I have never found as much success in those as I did during school. Of course there were difficult moments, as with anything, but those were so quickly outweighed by the pride I would get from crushing a test, or acing an assignment, that it really, genuinely felt worth it. The confidence gained from understanding material was borderline intoxicating. Now that its over, now that I've hit 'max level', it feels...again, empty.

I tell the people around me that I'm burned out from school, or that searching for a job during quarantine has me down, but in reality **I'm just really fucking sad that the one thing I was amazing at is over.**

School straight up made me a better person in every aspect. I had to maintain a respectable amount of physical activity to walk to and from classes/meetings, so my physique and posture were sort of automatically maintained. Relatedly, I had to maintain a a diet that fueled me for full days of work and thinking, so I ended up learning how to cook for myself and make real, good hearty food. Physical appearance plays a large role in how you're perceived, so dressing well and keeping a tight haircut/beard ensemble were also things I did out of necessity which ended up yielding benefits outside of their intended purpose (ya boi looked nice). Towards the end, I didn't have the time to sit around and smoke weed, and for the first time in 4 years, I actually kicked the habit and went clean for 6 months, and let me tell you it was fucking amazing, and I wish more than anything that I still was sober. I think the biggest thing for me though, was the sense of identity that I was able to sculpt for myself. People took what I had to say seriously and I commanded respect in a room based off my merit as a scholar. I wasn't just some fucking dancing monkey that was there for laughs, I was Sikander Haider, and I was professional, smart, and respected.

I was recently hanging out with some friends (don't worry precautions were taken) and I got hit with the time-old classic, "do something funny", and when those words hit my ears, it was just absolutely soul crushing. Like I had just spent the better part of 4 years breaking out of this mold and sculpting an identity that I was actually proud of and now that its over, I'm back to the same fucking place I started at. And I should point out, yes I understand the demands of different environments, and that in that social circle, my value is banked in my ability to entertain and get laughs. Thats the role that I play, and I'm okay with it, but fuck me if I miss being the other guy. I was so satisfied with life back then, and while I do love to make people laugh, its just really unfulfilling compared to what I was doing in school. At the same time though, it's all I have at this point.

I remember a conversation I had with my mom when I was in middle school one time. We were in the car, driving over to my friend's house and I was telling my mom that it felt like every one of my friends had a 'thing'. Art, sports, music, baking, even being really good at games, and then I was there, and my only thing was that I'm kinda funny, and thats it. I remember telling her that I hated it, how a lot of the time when I was being 'funny', I didn't like it. I couldn't put my finger on it back then, but looking back, its frustrating to see that I haven't moved on from this conundrum. Actually, no I'm like double salty because I did infact find a way out of it, but that got taken away from me, and now I don't know what to do. 

So now, here I am, the clown crying in the corner, and I just don't know where to go. I find myself yearning for a drive as strong as the one I lost, something to get me out of bed in the morning, a purpose, but at the same time, I want to wrap myself in something defining, something that dictates the perception of who I am. Going into work most definitely checks off that first box, given that the rigor of a full time job demands a substantial time commitment, thus forcing me to take charge of my schedule and habits. The environment is by default one of professionalism, where respect is earned through accomplishments within the shared system, but I know that it isn't the same. My motivation from school, while saturated by things like grades and test scores, was almost entirely intrinsic. I never had to motivate myself with a paycheck down the road, or the pressure from my parents. My own expectations and standards were what drove me. I never missed a class because I wouldn't let myself. Anything less than an A was considered a failure. These standards forced me to change certain aspects of my life, and without a system to house them, it feels like everything I've built in those formative years is beginning to crumble. 

While writing this up, I've realized that my work shouldn't, and can't define who I am, and it's up to me to project the imagine which is reflective of who I want to be, however I don't know if I can do that without the scaffolding of a system like school. Without the constant flow of challenges, things to match against my network of standards and expectations. What I want is a Kahuna-caliber wave that I can ride. A driving force which on its own, propels me *far enough*, but provides me with the momentum I need to do all the sick flips and tricks that I want to be able to do within that system. As of right now, I'm floating in the middle of ocean. Nowhere to go, nothing in sight. And I'm afraid that I'll get used to this. Afraid that I'll become complacent and acclimate to the stagnant water. I'm afraid that something as simple as paddling through the still water will be enough of an accomplishment for me to never stand on the board again and actually find myself in the tube again. I know that the world is rife with opportunity, and it's up to me to go out and seize mine, but it feels so pointless paddling through this water. It's hard. The water is cold, and the islands never seem to get any closer.

*The fire that was in eyes feels like its been extinguished, and I'm scared that it'll never light back up again.*

If you made it this far, thanks for reading. I'm not sure if I'll publish this, but one of my friends told me that there's power in vulnerability, so maybe I'll give that a shot, let my walls down for once. 

Eat some veggies, go outside, and do some stretches. Hopefully I'll be back sooner next time.  
