---
layout: post
title:  "ascribing importance to things (and the importance of doing so)"
date:   2020-11-17 14:53:00 -0000
categories: blog post
---
**WOW** ok, we're back. 

I know, I know, it's been just about 3 months since my last entry here, but I'd like to think I've kept myself substantially busy during that time frame. After my last post here, it was very clear that I needed to do some soul searching and work on myself, and I'm proud to say I *think* I've done a good job at that, or at the very least, I've given it my honest best effort, which for me, is one and the same with the former. 

Back in August, I was in a really dark place. Life felt pointless, I had no ambitions, and there was no reason to get out of bed in the morning. I hated it. I hated it so so so so *SO* much. I hated it because it felt like I was relapsing to the mental state I was in before I found myself in school, and I was scared that this time, without the help of an extrinsic force, I wouldn't be able to climb out of the pit. I remember telling myself that I would find myself in the work I was looking for, but, in classic over thinking Ali fashion, I concluded that I was lying to myself. These corporate jobs I was applying for were so meaningless. There was no passion, no personality. My lived experience of 4 years was reduced to 2 PDFs and an ethnicity survey. 

After rereading that block I feel the need to clarify, this wasn't about qualifications or expertise. I know what I know and most, if not all of the jobs I applied for were ones which I was inarguably overqualified for. I knew I was shooting low, and I was okay with that. I was, and admittedly still *am*, upset with the fact that I could not for the life of me get excited about *any* of these opportunities. I knew something had to change, and after months of different job search sites, keywords, avenues and strategies, I knew that it wasn't the process, but myself that needed to change.

*I fucking hate change.*

And I get it, this world view is so unrealistic, I feel stupid typing that out. Nothing is permanent, and the world around, and inside us, is *always* changing. Literally nothing is stagnant in this life. But I don't know if it's my pride, or just plain 'ol stubbornness, but good god do I hate changes. My perfect week is when I wake up and do the same shit every day for seven days. I'd eat the same meals, do the same activities and interact with the same people at the same times every single day. Now granted, I'm human, so there would be small micro-variations, but *oh man* even thinking about it gets me giddy. That's one of the biggest reasons I loved school. Same schedule week after week, same people, same food, same leisure activities. As you can probably surmise, I would be *quite* upset on the edges of quarters, as that meant I'd have to adapt to a whole new routine, and by the time I'd gotten used to it, the quarter would be coming to a close. This same philosophy can be applied on a slightly larger scale to my college experience as a whole. I only *really* got used to everything by the beginning of my fourth year, and as soon as I was 'good' at it, I was suddenly done. It was like a whirlwind, my life was so different. My friends, peers and colleagues were suddenly a world away. My work was done. It was time to move on.

*I had to move on.*

There was no choice. No agency. The decision was made for me. Not by the UC board, or by my professors, but by **time**. Such a fickle and precious thing. Gone as soon as you get some, and I can never seem to get enough of it. In my mind, the passage of time equates to the degree of change I will be subject to, and a four-year deficit meant that there was a metric ass-ton of change coming my way. Everything around me was different (relative to my immediate previous circumstances), yet every fiber of my being wanted to so badly stay the same. I was so in love with the idea of who I became during school that I had began to associate that personal growth with those memories. I felt trapped. It felt like there was a version of me locked away in a box somewhere and I didn't have the slightest idea where the key had gone. The one change I knew I had to make, the one concession my irrational attitude allowed me, was to free 'myself' from the box. To get him out of there and let him drive again, since it seemed like he knew where we were going.

Just coming to this realization, being able to craft that metaphor, was hard work. I thought about the 'me' in the box a lot. So many sleepless nights spend thinking about *why* I thought he was even in there. Why was there even a *him*. We're the same person, are we not? Why isn't it just *me*? If it's not just me, how the hell do I even get him out of there? Does he want to come out? *Should* I even by trying to let him out?

After all this thinking, asking all these ridiculous questions, I'm not entirely sure what happened, but the epiphany finally came to me. There was no 'me' in the box, and even if there was, he existed in the past, in a set of specific circumstances which will never, ever come together in that way again. He existed in a part of my life that I have already lived. His experiences are mine, and just because those circumstances and situations are no longer immediately present, doesn't mean that I'm still not him. If anything, I've gained more experience in my time 'after the box', and consequently, I'm the best version of myself, so there is no reason to yearn for the past, since it's teachings are still with me, independent of the setting they were taught in.

It was like I could see again. The sun had finally come back out and it was amazing. The rush of determination. I had been fortified by my realization and I was so sure of what I wanted to do and where I wanted to go. If I wasn't going to ever get over the past, I might as well take the experience I so fondly look back on and use it as a set of lessons; guidelines for the future. I began to fall into my old habits and routines. Small things, baby steps. My morning routine from school was reintegrated. Wake up. Shower. Make the bed. Get dressed. Leave the house. Granted I didn't leave the house, but I 'commuted' to my garage where I had set up an office space to work in. The point was, just because the time in which the routine was developed (out of necessity) had passed, didn't mean that I had to stop engaging in said routine. **I didn't have to change**. Sure, the work was a different flavor, trading term papers and diagrams for resumes and cover letters, but it was work, and it was important because I told myself that it was. It was important because there was a routine built around it, and if you're willing to build your day around something, it is probably important to you. 

I took this last idea and fucking ran with it. It didn't matter what it was, if I wanted to do something, it had to be worked into the routine, and if it gets worked into the routine, then well, it's important, and I should *probably* care about it. Suddenly, my life was full of passion again. I found myself laughing with my friends again, getting back into the hobbies I used to love so much, getting out of bed with conviction, not because I had to, but because *I had so many important things I wanted to do*. I've started taking more and more care of myself again because I want to be able to participate in all these important things. I *want* to do things again, and I'm really happy about it. I'm sure, like so many other things, this won't last forever, but I think I'm okay with that now. I've come to accept that this will always be hard for me, and that I'm prone to falling into these pits. But I'm not scared of them anymore, because I know there's a way out of them. Sure, the way up might be different, but there's a kind of beautiful irony about that.

*Change is opportunity, and opportunity can only lead to prosperity.*

Thanks for reading if you've made it this far. Things were hard for a while but I think I'm *finally* on my way. No promises of when I'll be back this time.

Read some books, pet your pets, and eat some fucking fruit. Till next time.