---
layout: post
title:  "the beauty of expertise"
date:   2020-12-23 14:53:00 -0000
categories: blog post
---
And just like that, we're back.

Good tidings and happy holidays everyone. Obviously this year's holiday season is a *little* different than usual, but nonetheless, I hope everyone will be able to find some semblance of holiday spirit in these tumultuous times.

Today's topic of discussion has been cooking the proverbial oven for a *looong* time, but only recently have I taken the time to really sit down and organize these feelings and thoughts into a (semi) coherent script, as opposed to a mishmash of passionate rambling. Even now, I'm not sure if I'll be able to provide an accurate reflection of these ideas, but nonetheless, I think this is some really neat stuff to think about, and I want you all to get in on this (I'm gonna go ahead and apologize in advance, since this probably isn't as mind-bendingly amazing as I think it is). 

***ANYWAYS***

Expert. The word carries a lot of weight. It implies hours of rehearsal, countless nights spent grinding away, and a level of familiarity with a subject most people can only dream of. An expert is someone who has carved out a space in their mind for a specific subject matter. An expert is someone whose eyes light up at the mention of their craft. When prompted with a discussion opportunity, their voice catches a certain tone, an enticing mixture of joy, passion and brilliance which sucks you in and encourages you to listen to them talk for as long as they'll humor you. It really is a difficult word to define, because for the seemingly infinite range of activities, mediums, and subjects available to a person, expertise is an achievable notion in them all. An expert could be someone who is a recognized professional; a trusted, vetted source. Or they're a 16 kid who has played 2000 hours of Sonic Adventure 2 and knows the levels like the back of their hand. Experts and their respective expertise are found in all kinds of shapes and sizes, and it is in this seemingly infinite variety that a commonality emerges; a pattern of similarity, that when viewed from a step back, reveals a beautiful, elegant facet of human cognition.

Whether I'm watching a TED talk by the aforementioned professional, or tuning into the 16 year old's twitch stream, the feeling is the same. That feeling of *holy hell they really know their shit*. Watching someone juggle all the moving parts of a system with seemingly no effort is some of the most entertaining stuff you can expose yourself to, especially if you have dabbled in their respective area of expertise before. It's almost surreal how someone can not only succeed in a system you struggled in, but excel in it and display a level of comfort that most can only aspire to achieve. It's something about the clarity of their thoughts and movements, the lack of hesitation borne out of a deep, innate understanding. You'd think they were born to do it, but the most exciting part about the whole thing, is that they *weren't*. They have just put that much time and effort into their craft.

One of the best examples of this I've seen is dance. For those of you who don't know, I spent the last year of my high school career in my school's hip hop club, where my lanky, uncoordinated brown ass tried to learn how to dance. Spoiler alert: It's not for me. *But*, among a myriad of other factors, one of the things that kept me there was being able to watch the great dancers dance. I never even liked dancing before that, and frankly I don't even think I'm too terribly fond of it now, but watching them dance was something else. They weren't concerned about how far apart their feet were, or staying on tempo, or not slapping the person next to them, they were just...dancing. Trivial things seemed to have no weight to them, and they instead put their effort into conveying moods, tones and rhythms through their bodies. You could hear it in the way they talked about their routines and movements, it wasn't, "this eight count needs more footwork" but it was instead, "this eight count doesn't *feel* right". There was an aura of self assuredness projected, where you could tell that their expertise had granted them freedom within the system of dance, and they were no longer concerned with dancing 'right' but instead with doing what they *wanted* to do within said system. For dance, this freedom manifests in the different styles of dance I was able to observe from my now friends. When they would freestyle, their movements would be a perfect reflection of who they were as a person, and it was honestly beautiful to see. To not only have a medium of self expression, but one which they were so familiar with that they could convey such high level ideas to someone like myself, who had no expertise in the medium, and still was at the stage where dance was a series of movements, and not a coherent piece of art. Regardless, as a testament to that expertise, I sit here years later, still thinking about those memories, and how they were able to show me that their craft was so much more that I had taken it for. 

*To be an expert is to understand something on such a deep, instinctual level, that you can convey its concepts and inner workings to someone with the mind of a child.*

When I started to get involved with the linguistics department in my college, I was able to have conversations with some *very* smart individuals. Conversations that more often than not left me feeling quite stupid afterwards, as they were able to talk about such advanced concepts in such a casual manner, even going as a far to make jokes about them, while I was still struggling to keep up with the conversation in general. Yet, even though I was racked with feelings of inadequacy and impostor syndrome, I couldn't help but walk away from those moments absolutely mesmerized that these people were really just that damn good at linguistic thinking. And it wasn't just a one-off thing, this was a whole department filled with these types of people, and just like with dance, they did not concern themselves with the basics of making sure their rules were parsimonious, or that their recursion actually accounted for the embedded structures seen in the data, they instead were looking at concepts and ideas, that once they explained it to you, provoked thoughts of, "of course *they* are working on that, it makes perfect sense that they'd care about that". The real treat though, was being able to witness a discussion between a handful of these people. The different flavors of personalities and ideas flowing throughout the room, proposing hypotheses and solutions only to be challenged by an intellectual rival was, well, beautiful to watch. Some of my fondest memories from college are the late nights me and my friends would spend in the library, trying our absolute hardest to crack a linguistic puzzle, stealing all the whiteboards on the floor and drawing more charts and diagrams than we had any right to. Nerdy 'ol me looks back on these nights with such fondness because this was us flexing our little baby linguist muscles and throwing what little expertise we had around that crescent-shaped couch.

*The foremost byproducts of expertise are confidence and understanding, both of which lead to a shared experience stronger than most.*

My mention of video games above wasn't (entirely) a comedic effort, as I do truly believe that games and sports of all kinds are some of the *best* vehicles for both developing and demonstrating expertise in a medium. I'd like to think it's some blend of the high degree of accessibility (just about anyone can get into these) and the prepackaged system provided for improvement and skill expression. The former helps to shape the appreciation one has for the expertise of their peers, while the latter helps to scaffold one's own level of understanding and experience. One of the biggest inspirations for this piece was a fleeting observation I made one day after playing some basketball with my friends. I remember tagging out for a break (I'm woefully out of shape) and watching the game unfold. It was amazing. Not the play itself per se, it was after all, just basketball, but the ways in which you could see the different personalities of the individuals manifest in their play was truly remarkable. The cooler heads on the court played a methodical game, taking small advantages and playing with their opponents just as much as the ball in their hands, while the more wild, loose cannon-esque types played with an explosive spirit. Constantly ducking and juking around, making erratic movements which, at a glance seemed panicked, but upon closer observation revealed a level of experience comparable to that of their teammates and opponents. Even small details, like their shooting form, were highly personalized, and reflective of their personalities. Their form and playstyles acted as a window into how *they* viewed the game, and almost provided a sample of their understanding and which aspects of the game they placed emphasis on. Everyone on the court understood and was conscious of the fundamentals of the game, however the drastic difference in playstyles seemed to emerge from how they organized and prioritized these universally known aspects of the game.

I think my infatuation with expertise comes from my borderline obsession with learning, as in most cases, an expert-level understanding is the final culmination of a *lot* of learning. It's incredibly satisfying to see the products and outcomes from a massive bank of knowledge, which are then further augmented by the personalities and biases of the individual wielding it. No two experts will think about a puzzle in their domain in the same way, yet they both posses the mental faculties to get past it, showing a reflection of their personality in the process. I know that I've broadly construed the definition of 'expert' in this piece, but that's because I truly believe that **everyone** is an expert at something, and getting to observe them engage with their specialization of choice really is a treat. 

That's all from me for now, though. I'd really like to hear some of your thoughts on this type of stuff (if you couldn't tell I'm pretty jazzed about it), and if yall have any similar types of observations and/or experiences. 

Do your laundry, take a walk, and *please* wear a fucking mask. 

Until next time.